---
categories:
- Introduction
date: '2014-09-20'
slug: ''
status: draft
tags: []
title: Preface
wp_id: 10
wp_modified: '2014-09-20T09:30:00'
---

Big Data is hip, nearly any big cooperation want to hire big specialist because they are interessted how they can profit from big data. In most cases they don’t even really know what big data is and if they even face “Big Data”. In fact if you ask 10 people what big data is you get 12 answers, there is no exact definition yet. My understanding of big data is close to what [Wikipedia](http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Data) states:

> **Big data** is an all-encompassing term for any collection of [data sets](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_set "Data set") so large and complex that it becomes difficult to process using traditional data processing applications.

The important message is that the choice if the data is big or not depends on the current task. For example if you simply want to store the data for some reason, data will become *big* if your database is exeeded. On the other Hand if you want to your data to compute a least squares estimate, the data will become *big* wayearlier. Besides an important factor is given by the time which is aviable to process the data. It will be much more difficult if a result is needed *on the fly* or two weeks ahead. Such *on the fly*estimations are important if a recommandation should be given right away, for example website adviserment or if the data is to big to store for example the headron collider data where we face 15,000,000 gigabytes of date per year.

Most Blogs out in the web are Blogs wrote by marketing guys. This Blog will be different, i want to cover all kind of problems from a technical and mathematical point of view. I will summen up interessting papers, that might help to process big data better than the traditional attemps as well i will write about databases and software.

Becasue Big Data is still a very fluent topic, i decides that a blog is the best medium. Neverless, this blog will be structured like an interactive book, where the reader is the editor. There is a basic categorie where i will present basic stuff which is necessary for later articles. I recommand a basic mathematical knowledge from school. You must understand the concepts of an integral as well expecation should be known. If you got problems here, big data is not the right field for you anyhow.

Bonn in septembre 2014 , Heiko Wagner