---
categories:
- Introduction
date: '2014-10-28'
slug: ''
status: draft
tags: []
title: Least Squares Regression and Big Data
wp_id: 129
wp_modified: '2014-10-28T16:45:49'
---

The Least Squares Regression  is one of the oldest way to fit data. As long as the samples are small it is easy to compute and still very poular for many applications.

Consider an observed sample of datapoint paires \_\_WPMATH\_0000\_\_ and \_\_WPMATH\_0001\_\_. We can write a vector \_\_WPMATH\_0002\_\_  of size \_\_WPMATH\_0003\_\_ and a matrix \_\_WPMATH\_0004\_\_ of size \_\_WPMATH\_0005\_\_ . The aim of least sqares estimation is to find some \_\_WPMATH\_0006\_\_ of size \_\_WPMATH\_0007\_\_best statisfying \_\_WPMATH\_0008\_\_. The best estimator for \_\_WPMATH\_0009\_\_is thus given by

\_\_WPMATH\_0010\_\_

\_\_WPMATH\_0011\_\_ as well as \_\_WPMATH\_0012\_\_ are just simple summations and can be computed seperate in \_\_WPMATH\_0013\_\_ if using [Strassen’s algorithm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strassen_algorithm "Strassen algorithm") or [Coppersmith–Winograd algorithm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coppersmith%E2%80%93Winograd_algorithm "Coppersmith–Winograd algorithm") even faster. More important is that this summations can be parallitzed which means that the summations within each multiplication can be done at the same time but in addition both multiplications can be done at the same time, too. This makes the task even faster.

Another important problem is the memory usage. If we facing a big data set it might be impossible to load the data in the ram, which is necessary if we want do do the estimation with R or even C. In such situations the usual approach is to divide the problem into many subproblems and match them together at the end. I want to use the least sqares estimator as a showcase how this stategy works.

An often used tool when facing matrices is the [QR decomposition](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QR_decomposition). Remeber our initial problem \_\_WPMATH\_0014\_\_ we decompose \_\_WPMATH\_0015\_\_ where \_\_WPMATH\_0016\_\_ is an othonormal matrix such that  \_\_WPMATH\_0017\_\_ and \_\_WPMATH\_0018\_\_ an upper triangle matrix. It follows that \_\_WPMATH\_0019\_\_.\
We will now consider how we can update our estimator if new data comes in without recomputing the whole problem. To quickly compute new observations \_\_WPMATH\_0020\_\_ we just need to store \_\_WPMATH\_0021\_\_ an can compute the corresponding \_\_WPMATH\_0022\_\_ very quick. If a new \_\_WPMATH\_0023\_\_ is observed, the problems a little harder.