---
categories:
- Introduction
date: '2014-10-22'
slug: ''
status: draft
tags: []
title: Bootstrapping Big Data
wp_id: 82
wp_modified: '2014-10-22T15:12:18'
---

In my opinion Bootstrap and Big data do not fit together. And personally i do not why there is a benefit to develop a Bootstrap procedure that works with Big Data. Bootstrap is usually used to estimate the distribution of an estimator when only a few observations are available while when speaking of Big Data we always assume that “to much” observation where made. In this case Bootstrap makes no sense to me because the error and also confidence intervals etc. will be very very small facing a big dataset. On the other Hand if the data is big, in most cases an approximation using a normal density will do a good job. Nevertheless there might be interessting cases where this approach could be very useful, even if i don’t see one right now.

Suppose a given sample \_\_WPMATH\_0000\_\_ drawn from a propability space \_\_WPMATH\_0001\_\_ with \_\_WPMATH\_0002\_\_ small. Consider an estimator \_\_WPMATH\_0003\_\_ of \_\_WPMATH\_0004\_\_, for example the sample mean \_\_WPMATH\_0005\_\_. We are interessted in the distribution of \_\_WPMATH\_0006\_\_ for example to compute confidence intervals.

The Bootstrap is then

1. Subsample with replacement \_\_WPMATH\_0007\_\_ times of size \_\_WPMATH\_0008\_\_ from \_\_WPMATH\_0009\_\_ results in \_\_WPMATH\_0010\_\_
2. Estimate \_\_WPMATH\_0011\_\_ sample means \_\_WPMATH\_0012\_\_

If the bootstrap is consistent it can be shown that the distribution \_\_WPMATH\_0013\_\_ can be approximated by the bootstrap distribution \_\_WPMATH\_0014\_\_. Usually the amount of replications \_\_WPMATH\_0015\_\_ is supposed to be around 2500, which makes the bootstrap very computionally intensive.

To compute the bootstrap if the data is big (Kleiner et. al. 2012) introduced the Bag of Little Bootstrap (BLB) Method. This appraoch uses a resampling and averaging  to allow parallization and thus fasten up the computation. We again assume a given sample \_\_WPMATH\_0016\_\_ drawn from a propability space \_\_WPMATH\_0017\_\_ but now \_\_WPMATH\_0018\_\_ is supposed to be very big.

The Bag of Little Bootstraps is then

1. Create subsets \_\_WPMATH\_0019\_\_  from \_\_WPMATH\_0020\_\_ with sampling without replacement.
2. For each sample \_\_WPMATH\_0021\_\_, compute the empirical density \_\_WPMATH\_0022\_\_
3. Sample \_\_WPMATH\_0023\_\_ times \_\_WPMATH\_0024\_\_ and construct \_\_WPMATH\_0025\_\_

If the bootstrap is consistent (Kleinert et. al. 2012) has shown that the distribution \_\_WPMATH\_0026\_\_ can be approximated by the bootstrap distribution \_\_WPMATH\_0027\_\_.

The big benefit of this approach is that \_\_WPMATH\_0030\_\_ can be computed using parallization before the actual bootstrap. And therefore every Bootstrap iteration is just of \_\_WPMATH\_0028\_\_ from summing up a vector of size \_\_WPMATH\_0029\_\_. The same is true for storing.

Could not retrieve remote URL http://www.add-ons.de/thebigdatablog/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/lib.bib: Page not found / 404 error code